                            Creating an Open
                            Controller with Sedona
                            Framework™
                            George Thomas
                            Contemporary Controls




      White Paper
Revised February 15, 2016
Developed by Tridium Inc., Sedona Framework is a software environment
designed to make it easy to build smart, networked, embedded devices which
are well suited for implementing control applications. The Sedona language
is a component-oriented programming language similar to Java or C#. By
utilizing this language, custom components can be developed and assembled
into applications. The Sedona Framework trademark is owned by Tridium,
Inc. but can be used by acknowledging the owner. More importantly, the
Sedona Framework technology is available to the public under an Academic
Free License granted by the licensor – Tridium, Inc. A licensee is allowed the
worldwide, royalty-free and non-exclusive use of the technology. For those
who want to be part of the Sedona Community, software and documentation
is available for download from sedonadev.org. Contemporary Controls is a
community member and views this technology as the best hope in creating a
truly open controller.

Contemporary Controls defines an open controller as follows:
•   Utilizes an open protocol for network communications
•   Supports an open programming language for implementing control 		
    strategies
•   Provides a programming tool that is available to systems integrators
    without restriction
•   Fosters a community of developers and integrators that share 			
    technology for the public good

Open Protocol for Network Communications
BACnet® is recognized as an open protocol supporting several network
variants including IP but it is not a programming language. It defines the way
data is represented and communicated over a network and should be used
in an open controller. Criticism of BACnet as not being open is only because
BACnet compliant controllers may require different programming tools that
may not be available to all system integrators. This is an issue BACnet
cannot address because it is not involved with programming. However,
BACnet has world-wide appeal and BACnet/IP has the additional benefit of
providing access to the web-based suite of protocols making data access
through web browsers viable.

Open Programming Language for Implementing Control
Sedona Framework is a component-oriented programming language where
components are assembled onto wire sheets creating applications (see
Figure 1). This language is ideally suited for graphical representation of
control strategies. It has a similar look-and-feel to the popular Niagara
Framework™ and it is IP-based. Those with experience with Niagara
Framework will have no problem understanding Sedona Framework.
For those without Niagara experience, the graphical representation of
components linked on a wire sheet to create applications is intuitive and can
be easily learned with a minimum of training.




                   2
                      Figure 1—Sedona Wire Sheet with connected components to form applications.




                                    Programming Tool Available to Systems Integrators without Restrictions
                                    To assemble components onto a wire sheet requires a Sedona Tool. Sedona
                                    programming tools are available from Tridium, Contemporary Controls or
                                    from other sources. Although Tridium’s Niagara Workbench is intended for
                                    Niagara Framework programming, it can be used as a Sedona programming
                                    tool with the installation of Sedona. Workbench is ubiquitous in the building
                                    controls industry and available from several OEMs under different brand
                                    names. However, it cannot be claimed to be available to all without restriction.
                                    Contemporary Controls has developed a Sedona Tool called Sedona
                                    Application Editor which is available to all system integrators independent of
                                    their access to the Tridium channel (see Figure 2).




                                                            Community of Developers and Integrators Sharing
                                                            Technology for the Public Good
                                                            Contemporary Controls serves the Sedona community
                                                            as both a developer and integrator. As a developer,
                                                            it produces Sedona devices and has created special
                                                            Sedona components beyond those supplied by Tridium.
                                                            As an integrator it has assembled components onto
                                                            wire sheets in creating control strategies and has
                                                            offered these strategies to its customers as example
                                                            applications. Components are deployed in kits and
                                                            some kits are dependent upon the hardware platform
                                                            and some not. Those custom component kits that are
Figure 2 — Contemporary Controls’ Sedona Application        hardware independent are available free to the Sedona
Editor can be used as a Sedona Tool if Niagara Workbench    community in the spirit of sharing in the development of
is not available.                                           a truly open controller.




                                                           3
                                    Sedona Workflow Model
                                    Much of the following information comes from the SedonaDev.Org site.
                                    The actual process of developing a Sedona device is complex and only
                                    understandable by skilled software professionals. We will only provide an
                                    overview of the process as we study Figure 3.

                                    The Sedona community consists of device vendors, software developers,
                                    system integrators and end users. Contemporary Controls’ dual role is
                                    that of a device manufacturer and software developer where we produce
                                    Sedona-based products to be used by system integrators and end users.
                                    The roles of Developer and Integrator differ.
                                    • Developer – software professional that develops components that are
                                        assembled into modules and deployed as kits.
                                    •    Integrator – experienced systems integrator using graphical tools 		
                                         places components onto a wire sheet, connects links between 			
                                         components, configures components thus creating an application.

                                    Although the developer could probably play both roles, the intent is to
                                    develop Sedona devices where a non-programmer, using graphical tools,
                                    can implement an application by assembling components onto a wire
                                    sheet. Systems integrators understand applications with little time to learn
                                    the intricacies of the Sedona programming language, which is left to the
                                    developers.

                                                                                       Using the Sedona language,
                                                                                       the developer writes a library
                                                                                       of components that are to be
                                                                                       compiled into kits. But first,
                                                                                       the components are grouped
                                                                                       in some logical fashion for
                                                                                       meaningful deployment as a kit.
                                                                                       Tridium provides examples by
                                                                                       grouping logical elements into
                                                                                       a logic module or by grouping
                                                                                       all mathematical elements into
                                                                                       a math module (see Figure 4).
                                                                                       Now they can be complied as
                                                                                       a Logic kit or the Math kit using
                                                                                       the sedonac compiler. These
                                                                                       pre-defined components are
                                                                                       the building blocks used by the
                                                                                       integrator when constructing
                                                                                       applications. The deployment
                                                                                       of components is via kits.
                                                                                       Consider a kit to be similar
Figure 3—Sedona Workflow Model shows the activities of the developer and integrator.   to a Java JAR file or a
                                                                                       Windows’ DLL.




                                                           4
Once all the kits are defined they must be assembled into one compact file
called a Scode image the structure of which is dependent upon the target
hardware. This kits.scode file along with an app.sab is what is interpreted
by the Sedona virtual machine (SVM) once they are placed in the Sedona
device.

The Sedona device is shown in Figure 3. The developer must determine
the interface to real input/output points and determine a way to communicate
to the Sedona programming tool using the Sox protocol. Although Tridium
provides a sample SVM, the SVM must be modified to suit the hardware
requirements of the target Sedona device. The tradeoffs usually relate
to RAM and flash memory space especially when using very small
microcontrollers. This was accomplished by Contemporary Controls with its
line of Sedona devices. Once the SVM is developed and the Scode image
is defined by Contemporary Controls, all that is left is the application which
comes from the integrator.

In the Sedona Framework environment, applications can be represented in
two forms – a sax file or a sab file. The sax file is human-readable being
that it is structured as an XML file. The sab file is a binary file intended to
be interpreted on the Sedona device. Using the sedonac complier, you can
move between the two representations of the same application.

Tridium Components and Custom Components
Components are the basic elements for creating applications. Each
component type serves a specific function and Tridium provided a head-start
by providing a set of commonly needed components (see Figure 4). These
components are sorted in several functional groups but it was never the intent
of Tridium to create all that were needed to implement an application. The
Sedona community was to help. It is the policy of Contemporary Controls to
provide the Tridium components – called Tridium’s Sedona 1.2 Components
– in its Sedona devices without modification. They are easy to recognize
because no vendor name is included in the kit name or the component name.
The Tridium components are deemed necessary but not sufficient. Custom
components need to be created to handle the unique I/O requirements of the
Sedona device being developed.

Custom components can be developed by systems integrators or product
manufacturers. These components will be tagged with the developer’s name
and will be deployed in kits with the same developer name. If they only
function on particular hardware, they are called product-specific components
and should carry both the developer name and the product name. If they
function independent of particular hardware, they only need to carry the
developer’s name. Of course, each component must carry a component
name to distinguish its function and a kit name that is somewhat meaningful
to distinguish the kit. Contemporary Controls has developed both hardware
dependent and hardware independent components all deployed in kits
carrying the company name.




                     5
                                  Tridium’s Sedona 1.2 Components
                                          LSeq      Linear Sequencer — bar graph representation of input value
    The HVAC Group                   ReheatSeq      Reheat sequence — linear sequence up to four outputs
        operations that                  Reset      Reset — output scales an input range between two limits
       facilitate control                 Tstat     Thermostat — on/off temperature controller

 The Scheduling Group                   DailySc     Daily Schedule Boolean — two-period Boolean scheduler
   scheduling operations                DailyS1     Daily Schedule Float — two-period float scheduler
   based upon time of day              DateTime     Time of Day — time, day, month, year

                                           Cmpr     Comparison math — comparison (<=>) of two floats
                                           Count    Integer counter — up/down counter with integer output
                                            Freq    Pulse frequency — calculates the input pulse frequency
                                      Hysteresis    Hysteresis — setting on/off trip points to an input variable
                                          IRamp     IRamp — generates a repeating triangular wave with an integer output
  The Function Group                     Limiter    Limiter — Restricts output within upper and lower bounds
   convenient functions for            Linearize    Linearize — piecewise linearization of a float
 developing control schemes                   LP    LP — proportional, integral, derivative (PID) loop controller
                                           Ramp     Ramp — generates a repeating triangular or sawtooth wave with a float output
                                        SRLatch     Set/Reset Latch — single-bit data storage
                                       TickTock     Ticking clock — an astable oscillator used as a time base
                                           UpDn     Float counter — up/down counter with float output

    The Priority Group           PrioritizedBool    Prioritized boolean output — highest of sixteen inputs
prioritizing actions of Boolean, PrioritizedFloat   Prioritized float output — highest of sixteen inputs
  Float and Integer variables      PrioritizedInt   Prioritized integer output — highest of sixteen inputs

                                            B2F     Binary to float encoder — 16-bit binary to float conversion
                                      ConstBool     Boolean constant — a predefined Boolean value
                                      ConstFloat    Float constant — a predefined float variable
                                        ConstInt    Integer constant — a predefined integer variable
    The Types Group                         F2B     Float to binary decoder — float to 16-bit binary conversion
     variable types and                       F2I   Float to integer — float to integer conversion
  conversion between types                    I2F   Integer to float — integer to float conversion
                                             L2F    Long to float — long integer to float conversion
                                       WriteBool    Write Boolean — setting a writable Boolean value
                                      WriteFloat    Write Float — setting a writable float value
                                        WriteInt    Write integer — setting an integer value

                                      ADemux2       Analog Demux — Single-input, two-output analog de-multiplexer
                                          And2      Two-input Boolean product — two-input AND gate
                                          And4      Four-input Boolean product — four-input AND gate
                                          ASW       Analog switch — selection between two float variables
                                         ASW4       Analog switch — selection between four floats
    The Logic Group                        B2P      Binary to pulse — simple mono-stable oscillator (single-shot)
   logical operations using               BSW       Boolean switch — selection between two Boolean variables
      Boolean variables              DemuxI2B4      Four-output Demux — integer to Boolean de-multiplexer
                                           ISW      Integer switch — selection between two integer variables
                                            Not     Not — inverts the state of a Boolean
                                            Or2     Two-input Boolean sum — two-input OR gate
                                            Or4     Four-input Boolean sum — four-input OR gate
                                            Xor     Two-input exclusive Boolean sum — two-input XOR gate

                                          DlyOff    Off delay timer — time delay from a “true” to “false” transition of the input
    The Timing Group                      DlyOn     On delay timer — time delay from an “false” to “true” transition of the input
   time-based components                OneShot     Single Shot — provides an adjustable pulse width to an input transition
                                          Timer     Timer — countdown timer

                                           Add2     Two-input addition — results in the addition of two floats
                                           Add4     Four-input addition — results in the addition of four floats
                                          Avg10     Average of 10 — sums the last ten floats while dividing by ten thereby providing a running average
                                           AvgN     Average of N — sums the last N floats while dividing by N thereby providing a running average
                                            Div2    Divide two — results in the division of two float variables
                                     FloatOffset    Float offset — float shifted by a fixed amount
     The Math Group                         Max     Maximum selector — selects the greater of two inputs
  math-based components                      Min    Minimum selector — selects the lesser of two inputs
                                        MinMax      Min/Max detector — records both the maximum and minimum values of a float
                                           Mul2     Multiply two — results in the multiplication of two floats
                                           Mul4     Multiply four — results in the multiplication of four floats
                                            Neg     Negate — changes the sign of a float
                                         Round      Round — rounds a float to the nearest N places
                                           Sub2     Subtract two — results in the subtraction of two floats
                                           Sub4     Subtract four — results in the subtraction of four floats
                                       TimeAvg      Time average — average value of float over time


                                        Figure 4—Tridium’s Sedona 1.2 components are considered standard components. It is
                                        recommended to include them with any Sedona device without modification.

                                                                        6
                                          Using the Sedona Tool
                                          For a Sedona Tool we will study the Sedona Application Editor (SAE). Using
                                          SAE, the integrator connects to the Sedona device using the SOX protocol
                                          which is accomplished with an IP connection. A kits pane shows all the kits
                                          present in the Sedona device’s Scode image (see Figure 5). Notice that
                                          in this example there are both Tridium and custom component kits. The
                                          CControls_BASC20_IO and CControls_BASC20_Web kits are product
                                          specific kits because they carry both the company name and the product
                                          name. The first kit is used to interface physical I/O points to the wire sheet
                                          while the other interfaces wire sheet components to web pages. They are to
                                          be used only with Contemporary Controls’ BASC20 product. The CControls_
                                          Function kit is hardware independent and can be used on any Sedona 1.2
                                          compliant device. This kit contains a collection of miscellaneous components
                                          that enhance the use of Sedona.

                                                           Applications can now be created on the Sedona device by
                                                           expanding the kits in the Kits pane thereby exposing the
                                                           component building blocks. Components are then dragged
                                                           onto the wire sheet, configured and then linked with other
                                                           components to create an application. The application can
                                                           be tested live on the device with any program changes
                                                           witnessed immediately. Once the application is finalized,
                                                           it is saved on the Sedona device in order for all program
                                                           changes to survive power cycling. It can also be saved as
                                                           an app.sax file using the Save to PC function in SAE,
                                                           which converts the app.sab to an app.sax. If the
                                                           Backup/Restore Tool in Workbench is used instead, both
                                                           the app.sax and kits.scode files are saved. It may also
                                                           appear with Workbench that you can backup and restore
                                                           the SVM. That depends on the hardware implementation of
                                                           the Sedona device and in most cases this is not possible.
                                                           The SVM is not intended to be modified once it is shipped
                                                           as a Sedona device.

                                                           There is one important thing to remember with the
                                                           information in Figure 3. From the figure, it would appear
                                                           that the kits.scode is developed once and permanently
                                                           installed in the Sedona device. That depends upon the
                                                           type of memory in which the kits.scode file is loaded. If it
                                                           is in ROM there is no hope of change but in flash memory
Figure 5—Listing of kits installed in the Sedona device.   it is possible to provision the file through the Sedona Tool.
                                                           This provides greater flexibility in that the Sedona Tool can
                                                           accept additional kits (even from a third-party) that provide
                                                           components not found in existing kits. Using the
                                                           Kit Manager in the Sedona Tool, these new kits can be
                                                           added to the Sedona device by recompiling the
                                                           app.sax and kits.scode files and pushing them down to the
                                                           Sedona device. This can be done by the integrator without
                                                           an in-depth knowledge of the process. This provisioning
                                                           capability would allow for the sharing of kits or development
                                                           of additional kits from those originally shipped with the
                                                           Sedona device.


                                                             7
A Sedona Device Development Example – the BAScontrol20 as an Open
Controller
The BAScontrol20 (BASC20) Sedona Unitary Controller was “built on the
Sedona Framework™.” This is the proper trademark recognition that should
be given to Tridium as the Sedona Framework trademark holder. The BASC20
is a good example of an open controller in that it embodies the attributes of an
open controller as defined by Contemporary Controls.
•   It is BACnet/IP compliant and incorporates a Sedona Virtual Machine.
•   It can be programmed using Niagara Workbench or with a Sedona Tool.
•   It is available to any systems integrator without restriction.

If you study the features of this product you will notice design intents beyond
just Sedona programming. Sedona only solves the programming aspects of
the product and does not address BACnet or web page configuration issues.
To be viable in the building controls marketplace the product needed to do
more. However, Sedona had enough flexibility in that custom components
were able to be created that interface wire sheet data with BACnet clients and
web pages. This means that the BASC20 can cooperate with BACnet head-
ends and BACnet tools along with being able to be configured or examined
using a standard web browser. Remember that Sedona was designed with IP
networks in mind.

The BAScontrol20 features are as follows:
•   55Mz ARM7 32-bit processor with 512kB of flash, 128kB RAM and a 16
    Mbit serial flash
•   20 Points of I/O
      m   Eight universal inputs – thermistor, resistance, analog voltage, 		
          binary, and pulse
      m   Four binary inputs – voltage-free contacts
      m   Four analog outputs – 0-10 VDC
      m   Four relay outputs – 30 VAC/VDC 2A or 30VAC 0.5A triacs
•   BACnet/IP compliant with a B-ASC device profile
•   16 COVs – 14 binary and 2 analog
•   24 virtual components interface wire sheet data to BACnet clients
•   48 web components interface wire sheet data to web pages
•   Real-time clock can be set manually or via a network-time-protocol (NTP)
    server
•   Sedona – 1.2.28 Virtual Machine supports up to a 200 component wire
    sheet
•   Workbench or Sedona Tool programming
•   Webpage configuration
•   24 VAC/VDC powered
•   DIN-rail mountable




                       8
Figure 6—BAScontrol20 Sedona Unitary Controller is BACnet/IP compatible.



 By having a 10/100 Mbps Ethernet connection, the BASC20 can easily
 connect to Workbench or a Sedona Tool for programming or to a web browser
 for configuration or monitoring. The BASC20 can operate in two modes –
 freely programmable and remote I/O. As a freely programmable controller
 a Sedona Tool is needed to input the control logic but if the unit is to be just
 BACnet/IP compliant remote I/O, only a web browser is needed for channel
 and device configuration.

 The universal points must be first configured for channel type using a web
 browser while the remaining real points require no channel configuration. All
 real points and all 24 virtual points can be configured for BACnet name, type
 and units. BACnet object instances are pre-defined. It is also necessary to
 configure the BACnet device parameters with Device Object Name and Device
 Instance.

 The eight universal inputs can be uniquely configured. Type II and Type III
 10kΩ thermistor curves as well as a 20kΩ thermistor curve are resident in
 the unit. Open thermistor conditions can be sensed and an out-of-bounds
 temperature reading can be assigned. Resistance can range from 1kΩ to
 100kΩ. Analog voltage is 0-10 VDC or 0-20 mA using an external resistor.
 Binary inputs are voltage-free as are the pulse inputs. Pulse inputs only apply
 to the first four universal points, which have retentive memory for storing pulse
 accumulations. For passive transducers a pull-up resistor to +12 VDC can be
 enabled during configuration. High and low threshold points can be assigned.

 The BASC20 can be configured for a static IP address or for DHCP. If
 Internet access exists, the BASC20 can be also be configured for DNS server
 addresses allowing a domain name to be used when setting time using
 NTP. The real-time clock can also be set manually and will retain time for
 up to seven days using capacitor storage. Daylight Savings Time (DST) is
 supported as well.




                       9
                                     Sedona Kits Provide the Personality
                                     The BASC20 utilizes a SVM from the latest release of Sedona – 1.2.28. For
                                     short, we call this Sedona 1.2 and the kits that Tridium provides as the Tridium
                                     1.2 kits. Contemporary Controls participated in the Sedona 1.2 certification
                                     program. Figure 5 lists all the kits in the BASC20. Of these kits, all those not
                                     carrying a company label are from the Tridium 1.2 release. The three with
                                     the prefix CControls come from Contemporary Controls. If a model number
                                     follows the name it means that the kit is hardware dependent and therefore
                                     not portable to another Sedona device. However, the CControls_Function
                                     kit is portable and available to the Sedona Community. Figure 7 provides a
                                     listing of components in this kit.

                                           This function kit is not to be confused with the Func kit from Tridium.
                                           It is just a collection of components that Contemporary Controls felt
                                           would be useful to integrators. The components include multiple-input
                                           AND and OR gates with complementary outputs, plus temperature
                                           conversion components and psychrometric components for either SI or
                                           English units. It is an example of how a Sedona community member
                                           can add value to the Sedona community.

                                           Of the two remaining hardware dependent kits, the CControls_
                                           BASC20_Web kit is more interesting in that it is a collection of 48 web
                                           components that provide an interface between a Sedona wire sheet
                                           and web pages. These components allow a user to provide data, such
                                           as setpoints, to the wire sheet without the need of the Sedona Tool.
                                           The same component can be configured to supply wire sheet data to a
                                           web page. This is a good example of how innovation is supported in an
                                           open source project such as Sedona Framework.

                                           In a similar fashion, the CControls_BASC20_IO kit has 24 virtual point
                                           components that allow data transfer between BACnet clients and the
Figure 7—List of components in the         BASC20 wire sheet. These components can be configured to supply
CControls – Function kit.
                                           data or to consume data.



                                       The web component is a custom Sedona component from Contemporary
                                       Controls. In this example, WC05 is configured using SAE to be a wire
                                       sheet input thereby controlling the Ramp output via a web page. WC06 is
                                       configured as a wire sheet output displaying the instantaneous output of
                                       the Ramp. Notice that WC05 can be configured for limits, which will restrict
                                       the range of values that can be inputted from the web page. A similar
                                       component exists for BACnet virtual points.




                                                        10
Contemporary Controls’ Developed Sedona Components
BAScontrol20 I/O Kit – BAScontrol20 platform specific components
AO1 – AO4                 Analog output – analog voltage output point
BI1 – BI4                 Binary input – binary input point
BO1 – BO4                 Binary output – binary output point
ScanTim                   Scan time monitor – records the min, max and average scan times
UI1 – UI4                 Universal input – binary, analog voltage, thermistor, resistance or accumulator
UI5 – UI8                 Universal input – binary, analog voltage, thermistor or resistance
UC1 – UC4                 Retentive universal counters – up/down retentive counters
VT01 – VT08               Retentive virtual points – share retentive wire sheet data with BACnet/IP clients
VT09 – VT24               Virtual points – share wire sheet data with BACnet/IP clients



BAScontrol20 Web Kit – BAScontrol20 platform specific components
WC01 – WC48               Web components – share wire sheet data with the BAScontrol20 web pages



Contemporary Controls Function Kit – Common to Sedona 1.2 compliant controllers
Cand2                      Two-input Boolean product – two-input AND/NAND gate with complementary outputs
Cand4                      Four-input Boolean product – four-input AND/NAND gate with complementary outputs
Cand6                      Six-input Boolean product – six-input AND/NAND gate with complementary outputs
Cand8                      Eight-input Boolean product – eight-input AND/NAND gate with complementary outputs
Cmt                        Comment – comment field up to 64 characters
Cor2                       Two-input Boolean sum – two-input OR/NOR gate with complementary outputs
Cor4                       Four-input Boolean sum – four-input OR/NOR gate with complementary outputs
Cor6                       Six-input Boolean sum – six-input OR/NOR gate with complementary outputs
Cor8                       Eight-input Boolean sum – eight-input OR/NOR gate with complementary outputs
CtoF                       °C to °F – Celsius to Fahrenheit Temperature Conversion
Dff                        “D” Flip-Flop – D-style Edge-triggered Single-bit Storage
FtoC                       °F to °C – Fahrenheit to Celsius Temperature Conversion
HLpre                      High – Low Preset – defined logical true and false states
PsychrE                    Psychrometric Calculator – English Units
PsychrS                    Psychrometric Calculator – SI Units
SCLatch                    Set/Clear Latch – single-bit level-triggered single-bit data storage

            Figure 8—Contemporary Controls has developed two product specific kits and one product independent kit.




                                                            11
The main web page on the BASC20. All physical I/O points can be viewed with a common web browser. Additional
pages exist to view web components and virtual points. From this page access to other pages is possible.



                                 Programmable or Configurable Controller
                                 Sedona is inherently freely-programmable using the Sedona Tool but that does
                                 not preclude configurable operation with the control application hidden from view.
                                 Both web components and virtual point components can be used to configure
                                 a pre-designed control application using either a web browser or BACnet tool.
                                 The application must first be developed using the Sedona Tool but once the
                                 controller is deployed in the field it is not necessary to have the tool at all. Once
                                 configured, the controller will automatically boot-up into the application with
                                 no operator intervention. If user adjustments are needed, use a web browser,
                                 which will be prompted for User Name and Password.




A more complex component is the Psychrometric component demonstrating
the range of possibilities when developing custom Sedona components. Input
variables are dry-bulb temperature and relative humidity while output variables
are dew point, enthalpy, saturation pressure, vapor pressure and wet-bulb
temperature. Separate components exist for English and SI units.




                                                         12
                                                Sedona Project Backup and Restore Utility
                                                Although the Workbench tool has a Backup and Restore program it
                                                only addresses the Sedona aspects of the controller. To truly backup
                                                a BAScontrol20 it is best to use Contemporary Controls’ BASbackup
                                                – Sedona Project Backup and Restore Utility that is available for
                                                free from the Contemporary Controls web site. The list of files in the
                                                BAScontrol20 is shown in Figure 9. Two files – the bas_cfg.xml and
                                                the webc.xml – are unique to the BAScontrol20 and need to be backed
Figure 9—Files needed to backup a controller.   up if everything is to be saved. The first of these two files saves the IP
                                                settings and BACnet configurations. The second of the two saves the
                                                web component configurations. The SVM is not backed up because
                                                is part of the basic firmware of the product itself and does not change.
                                                The BASbackup utility handles the complete backup and restore process
                                                while saving the complete configuration and wire sheet in one compact
                                                zip file.




                                                Figure 10—BASbackup main screen.



                                                Summary
                                                Developing a programming language for a controller takes considerable
                                                effort but much of this has been done thanks to the initial contribution
                                                by Tridium. By having the Sedona Framework technology accessible
                                                to the public it can be built upon and improved through the efforts of
                                                the Sedona community. Businesses have prospered through the use
                                                of open technologies such as the Internet and BACnet and the public
                                                has benefited as well. The open controller concept with accessible
                                                programming tools is a worthy concept and can be achieved through by
                                                a committed Sedona community.




                                                              13
Contemporary Control                            Contemporary Controls Ltd                      Contemporary Controls GmbH                  Contemporary Controls
Systems, Inc                                    14 Bow Court                                   Fuggerstraße 1 B                            (Suzhou) Co. Ltd
2431 Curtiss Street                             Fletchworth Gate                               04158 Leipzig                               11 Huoju Road
Downers Grove, IL 60515                         Coventry CV5 6SP                               Germany                                     Science & Technology Park
USA                                             United Kingdom                                 + 49 (0) 341 520359 0                       New District, Suzhou
                                                                                                                                           PR China 215009
+ 1 630 963 7070                                + 44 (0) 24 7641 3786                          ccg.info@ccontrols.com
                                                                                                                                           + 86 512 68095866
info@ccontrols.com                              ccl.info@ccontrols.com                         www.ccontrols.eu
                                                                                                                                           info@ccontrols.com.cn
www.ccontrols.com                               www.ccontrols.co.eu
                                                                                                                                           www.ccontrols.com.cn


 Trademarks — Contemporary Controls, BASautomation, and CTRLink, are trademarks or
 registered trademarks of Contemporary Control Systems, Inc. BACnet is a registered
 trademark of the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers
 Inc. (ASHRAE). Sedona and Niagara Framework are trademarks of Tridium, Inc. Other
 product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.             ©Contemporary Control Systems, Inc. February 2016   WP-SEDONA-AA1
